=Installing=

 * Kubuntu 7.10 (Version tested: 0.6.0_alpha)
 * Gentoo (Versions tested: All)
 * Kubuntu 5.10 (Version tested: svn 18.01.2006 rev 161 - coming 0.5.0 release)
 * Fedora Core 3 (Version tested: 0.4.0)
 * Fedora Core 4 (Version tested: 0.5.0)
 * Fedora Core 4 x86_64 (Version tested: svn 06.01.2006 rev 121 - coming 0.5.0 release)
 * Fedora Core 5 (Version tested: svn 23.03.2006 - coming 0.5.1 release)
 * Slackware 10.1 (Version tested: 0.3.0)
 * Slackware 10.2 (Version tested: svn 16.01.2006 rev 155 - coming 0.5.0 release)
 * Mandrake 10.1 (Version tested: 0.3.0)
 * Mandriva Free 2006 (Version tested: svn 17.01.2006 rev 156 - coming 0.5.0 release)
 * Suse 9.2 (Version tested: 0.3.0)
 * Suse 10.0 (Version tested: svn 18.01.2006 rev 160 - coming 0.5.0 release)
 * PCBSD/FreeBSD 6.0 (Version tested: svn 19.01.2006 rev xxx - coming 0.5.0 release)

==Kubuntu 7.10==

 * universe and multiverse must be enabled to install all needed packages.
 * Install needed packages and they dependencies using apt-get.
{{{
# apt-get update

# apt-get install g++
# apt-get install make
# apt-get install cmake
# apt-get install zip
# apt-get install gettext
# apt-get install kdelibs5-dev

# apt-get install mplayer
# apt-get install ffmpeg
# apt-get install mjpegtools
# apt-get install dvdauthor
}}}

 * Install recommended packages and they dependencies using apt-get.
{{{
# apt-get install k3b
# apt-get install libdvdread3-dev
# dpkg -i dvd-slideshow-0.8.0-1_all.deb
# apt-get install openoffice.org

# apt-get install kaffeine
# apt-get install xine-ui
}}}

 * Compile & install kmediafactory.
{{{
# cd ~/src
# wget http://www.iki.fi/damu/software/kmediafactory/kmediafactory-0.X.X.tar.bz2
# tar xjvf kmediafactory-0.X.X.tar.bz2
# cd kmediafactory-0.X.X
# ./configure
# cd build; make
# sudo make install
}}}

==Gentoo==

 * Change directory overlay portage directory.
{{{
# source /etc/make.conf; cd $PORTDIR_OVERLAY
}}}
 * Get kmediafactory ebuilds
{{{
# wget http://www.iki.fi/damu/software/kmediafactory/kmediafactory.ebuild.tar.bz2
}}}
 * Extract ebuilds to portage overlay.
{{{
# tar xjvf kmediafactory.ebuild.tar.bz2
}}}
 * Emerge kmediafactory.
{{{
# emerge kmediafactory
}}}

==Kubuntu 5.10==

 * universe and multiverse must be enabled to install all needed packages.
 * Install needed packages and they dependencies using apt-get.
{{{
# apt-get update

# apt-get install g++
# apt-get install make
# apt-get install kdelibs4-dev
# apt-get install libmagick++6-dev
# apt-get install mjpegtools
# apt-get install dvdauthor
}}}
 * Install recommended packages and they dependencies using apt-get.
{{{
# apt-get install k3b
# apt-get install libxine-dev
# apt-get install libdvdread3-dev
# apt-get install libdv4-dev
# apt-get install libtheora-dev
# apt-get install dvd-slideshow

# apt-get install kaffeine
# apt-get install xine-ui
}}}
 * Compile & install kmediafactory.
{{{
# cd ~/src
# wget http://www.iki.fi/damu/software/kmediafactory/kmediafactory-0.X.X.tar.bz2
# tar xjvf kmediafactory-0.X.X.tar.bz2
# cd kmediafactory-0.X.X
# ./configure
# make
# make install
}}}

==Suse 9.2==

 * Some of the packages can be found from Packman
 * Install needed devel packages and they dependencies using yast.
{{{
gcc-c++
kdebase3-devel
ImageMagick-Magick++-devel
xine-devel
}}}
 * Install other needed packages and they dependencies using yast.
{{{
mjpegtools
dvdauthor
toolame
(xine) - only needed for preview
}}}
 * Compile & install kmediafactory.
{{{
# cd ~/src
# wget http://www.iki.fi/damu/software/kmediafactory/kmediafactory-0.X.X.tar.bz2
# tar xjvf kmediafactory-0.X.X.tar.bz2
# cd kmediafactory-0.X.X
# ./configure --prefix=/opt/kde3
# make
# make install
}}}
 * It seems that there is something wrong with the suse toolame rpm.
So if you find errors like this from the log
{{{
SmpFrqIndex: 48 is not a legal sample rate
**ERROR: [mplex] Unable to open file Main_1.mp2 for reading.
}}}
you should build toolame from source.

==Suse 10.0==

RPM packages see Packman
If you want to build source...
Packman repository should be configured for this to work.
 * Install needed packages and they dependencies using yast.
{{{
gcc-c++
kdebase3-devel
libacl-devel
ImageMagick-Magick++-devel
mjpegtools
dvdauthor
}}}
 * Install other needed packages and they dependencies using yast.
{{{
libxine1-devel
libdvdread-devel
libtheora-devel
libdv-devel
dvd-slideshow
}}}
 * Compile & install kmediafactory.
{{{
# cd ~/src
# wget http://www.iki.fi/damu/software/kmediafactory/kmediafactory-0.X.X.tar.bz2
# tar xjvf kmediafactory-0.X.X.tar.bz2
# cd kmediafactory-0.X.X
# ./configure
# make
# make install
}}}

==Fedora Core 3==

 * This guide needs configured.
 * Install needed devel packages and they dependencies using yum.
{{{
# yum install gcc-c++
# yum install kdebase-devel
# yum install ImageMagick-c++-devel
# yum install xine-lib-devel
# yum install libdv-devel
# yum install libdvdread-devel
}}}
 * Install other needed packages and they dependencies using yum. xine is only needed for preview.
{{{
# yum install mjpegtools
# yum install xine
}}}
 * Install these packages from source:
 * dvdauthor - 0.6.10 rpm won't work. kmediafactory needs atleast 0.6.11
 * toolame


 * Compile & install kmediafactory.
{{{
# cd ~/src
# wget http://www.iki.fi/damu/software/kmediafactory/kmediafactory-0.X.X.tar.bz2
# tar xjvf kmediafactory-0.X.X.tar.bz2
# cd kmediafactory-0.X.X
}}}
For 32-bit Fedora
{{{
# ./configure --with-qt-dir=/usr/lib/qt-3.3
}}}
For 64-bit Fedora
{{{
# ./configure --enable-libsuffix=64
}}}
Then compile
{{{
# make
# make install
}}}


==Fedora Core 4==

RPM packages for normal FC4 and they also work with KDE from kde-redhat
(http://kde-redhat.sourceforge.net/)
(an extra repository for the newest KDE).
===0.5.0===
 * RPM (needed)
 * Debuginfo (optional)
 * Devel (optional)
 * SRPM (optional)
 * SPEC (optional)
To install kmediafactory the repositories "Fedora Extras" (default since FC4) and the
"semi-official" rpm.livna.org
(Configuration) must be activated.
Then install dependencies:
{{{
yum install dvdauthor xine-lib mjpegtools ImageMagick ImageMagick-c++ libdvdread
}}}
Not needed but recommened:
{{{
yum install k3b xine
}}}
These rpms are from http://deadbabylon.de.vu (Thanks to Sebastian Vahl)

==Fedora Core 4 x86_64==
Based on custom installation with XWindow and KDE selected. yum update run afterwards (4.1.2005).<br/>
Repositories used:
 * Dries RPM Repository
 * ATrpms
 * livna

 * Mandatory packages:
{{{
# yum install gcc-c++
# yum install kdebase-devel
# yum install ImageMagick-c++-devel
# yum install mjpegtools
# yum install dvdauthor
}}}
 * Recommended packages:
{{{
# yum install xine-lib-devel
# yum install libdv-devel
# yum install libdvdread-devel
# yum install libtheora-devel

# yum install k3b
# yum install openoffice.org-impress
# rpm -i http://ovh.dl.sourceforge.net/sourceforge/dvd-slideshow/dvd-slideshow-0.7.2-1.noarch.rpm

# yum install xine
# yum install kaffeine
}}}
 * Optionally install other recommended packages from source.
 * ProjectX

 * Compile & install kmediafactory.
{{{
# cd ~/src
# wget http://www.iki.fi/damu/software/kmediafactory/kmediafactory-0.X.X.tar.bz2
# tar xjvf kmediafactory-0.X.X.tar.bz2
# cd kmediafactory-0.X.X
# ./configure --with-qt-dir=/usr/lib64/qt-3.3 --with-qt-libraries=/usr/lib64/qt-3.3/lib
# make
# make install
}}}

==Fedora Core 5==

RPM packages:
===0.5.1 & 0.5.2===
 * RPMs
If you want to build source...
Based on custom installation with XWindow and kdebase installed. yum update run afterwards (23.03.2006).
Repositories used:
 * livna
{{{
rpm -ivh http://rpm.livna.org/livna-release-5.rpm
}}}
 * Mandatory packages:
{{{
# yum install gcc-c++
# yum install kdebase-devel
# yum install ImageMagick-c++-devel
# yum install mjpegtools
# yum install dvdauthor
}}}
 * Recommended packages:
{{{
# yum install xine-lib-devel
# yum install libdv-devel
# yum install libdvdread-devel
# yum install libtheora-devel

# yum install k3b
# yum install openoffice.org-impress
# rpm -i http://ovh.dl.sourceforge.net/sourceforge/dvd-slideshow/dvd-slideshow-0.7.5-1.noarch.rpm

# yum install xine
# yum install kaffeine
}}}
 * Optionally install other recommended packages from source.
 * ProjectX

 * Compile & install kmediafactory.
{{{
# cd ~/src
# wget http://www.iki.fi/damu/software/kmediafactory/kmediafactory-0.X.X.tar.bz2
# tar xjvf kmediafactory-0.X.X.tar.bz2
# cd kmediafactory-0.X.X
# ./configure
# make
# make install
}}}

==Slackware 10.1==

 * Install needed packages (http://www.linuxpackages.net).
{{{
# installpkg libdvdread-0.9.4-i486-1tsu.tgz
# installpkg dvdauthor-0.6.11-i686-1jto.tgz
# installpkg mjpegtools-1.6.2-i686-3jto.tgz
# installpkg toolame-02l-i486-1zeb.tgz
}}}
 * Compile & install kmediafactory.
{{{
# cd ~/src
# wget http://www.iki.fi/damu/software/kmediafactory/kmediafactory-0.X.X.tar.bz2
# tar xjvf kmediafactory-0.X.X.tar.bz2
# cd kmediafactory-0.X.X
# ./configure
# make
# make install
}}}

==Slackware 10.2==

 * Install needed packages (http://www.linuxpackages.net).
{{{
# installpkg dvdauthor-0.6.11-i686-2jto.tgz
# installpkg libdvdread-0.9.4-i486-1kjz.tgz
# installpkg libdv-0.104-i486-1jed.tgz
# installpkg libtheora-1.0alpha5-i486-1jed.tgz
# installpkg mjpegtools-1.8.0-i686-1jto.tgz
# installpkg openoffice.org-2.0.1-i586-1kjz.tgz
}}}
 * Compile & install kmediafactory.
{{{
# cd ~/src
# wget http://www.iki.fi/damu/software/kmediafactory/kmediafactory-0.X.X.tar.bz2
# tar xjvf kmediafactory-0.X.X.tar.bz2
# cd kmediafactory-0.X.X
# ./configure --with-libfontconfig=/usr/X11R6
# make
# make install
}}}

==Mandrake 10.1==

 * For KDE 3.2 you must use snapshot 20050429 or later.
 * Install needed devel packages and they dependencies using rpmdrake.
{{{
gcc-c++
libkdebase4-devel
libxine1-devel
}}}
 * Install other needed packages and they dependencies using rpmdrake. xine is only needed for preview.
{{{
mjpegtools
xine-ui
}}}
 * Install these packages from source:
   * dvdauthor - 0.6.10 rpm won't work. kmediafactory needs atleast 0.6.11
   * toolame
   * ImageMagick - libMagick6.4.0-devel crashes.
 * Compile & install kmediafactory.
{{{
# cd ~/src
# wget http://www.iki.fi/damu/software/kmediafactory/kmediafactory-0.X.X.tar.bz2
# tar xjvf kmediafactory-0.X.X.tar.bz2
# cd kmediafactory-0.X.X
# ./configure --prefix=/usr
# make
# make install
}}}

==Mandriva Free 2006==

 * KDE Workstation installation
 * Install needed packages and they dependencies using rpmdrake.
{{{
make
gcc-c++
libkdebase4-devel
libMagick8.4.2-devel
dvdauthor
mjpegtools
}}}
 * Install other recommended packages.
{{{
libdv4-devel
libdvdread3-devel
libtheora0-devel
libxine1-devel
openoffice.org-go-ooo
k3b
dvd-slideshow
(xine-ui)
(kaffeine)
}}}
 * Compile & install kmediafactory.
{{{
# cd ~/src
# wget http://www.iki.fi/damu/software/kmediafactory/kmediafactory-0.X.X.tar.bz2
# tar xjvf kmediafactory-0.X.X.tar.bz2
# cd kmediafactory-0.X.X
# ./configure
# make
# make install
}}}

==PCBSD / FreeBSD 6.0==

 * This is a PCBSD install so KDE 3.4.0 is already installed.
 * Install needed packages.
{{{
cvsup /root/ports-supfile

cd /usr/ports/archivers/zip ; make install
cd /usr/ports/graphics/ImageMagick ; make install
cd /usr/ports/multimedia/mjpegtools ; make install
cd /usr/ports/multimedia/dvdauthor ; make install

cd /usr/ports/multimedia/libxine ; make install
cd /usr/ports/multimedia/libtheora ; make install
cd /usr/ports/multimedia/libdv ; make install
cd /usr/ports/multimedia/libdvdread ; make install
cd /usr/ports/multimedia/dvd-slideshow ; make install
}}}
 * I had to run this script in kmediafactory dir to compile ui files. Does
anyone know how to fix this?
{{{
#!/bin/sh
for item in `find . -name "*.ui" | sed s/.ui//`
do
       /usr/X11R6/bin/uic -L /usr/X11R6/lib/kde3/plugins/designer \
       -nounload -o ${item}.h ./${item}.ui
done
cd plugins/slideshow
kconfig_compiler slideshowplugin.kcfg slideshowpluginsettings.kcfgc
cd -
cd plugins/video
kconfig_compiler videoplugin.kcfg videopluginsettings.kcfgc
cd -
cd plugins/template
kconfig_compiler templateplugin.kcfg templatepluginsettings.kcfgc
cd -
cd plugins/dvimport
kconfig_compiler dvimportplugin.kcfg dvimportpluginsettings.kcfgc
cd -
cd src
kconfig_compiler kmediafactory.kcfg kmediafactorysettings.kcfgc
cd -
}}}
 * Compile & install kmediafactory.
{{{
# cd ~/src

# wget http://www.iki.fi/damu/software/kmediafactory/kmediafactory-0.X.X.tar.bz2
# tar xjvf kmediafactory-0.X.X.tar.bz2
# cd kmediafactory-0.X.X
# ./configure --with-libfontconfig=/usr/X11R6
    --with-libdv=/usr/local  --with-libdvdread=/usr/local
    --with-libtheora=/usr/local  --with-libxine=/usr/local
# make LDFLAGS=-lpthread
# make install
}}}