=Template File format=
Templates that come with KMediaFactory should provide good examples how to write theme files. KMediaFactory template file is a zip archive with a following structure:

 * mimetype - File that has text "application/x-kmediafactory-template"
 * icon.png - Small (64x64) preview of the template.
 * preview.jpg - Large (720x576) preview of the template.
 * template.xml - Page layouts
 * locale - Directory for template translations

=Page layouts=

Page layout has the following structure:
{{{
<template>
  <page>
    widgets...
  </page>
  other pages...
</template>
}}}

==template==
Parameters:

 * first_page - Name of first page
 * id - name/id used internally in KMediaFactory
 * name - name that is shown to user

==page==
Definition of each page.
Parameters:

 * name - Page name
 * titles - Number of titles (Videos from media page) this page can contain. 0 if showing only chapters
 * chapters - Number of chapters this page can contain. 0 if showing only titles.

==Widgets==

===All widgets===
Parameters common to all widgets:

 * name - Name of the widget
 * margin - Margin between outer frame and things inside widget.
 * x - Widget left (see coordinates)
 * y - Widget top (see coordinates)
 * w - Widget width (see coordinates)
 * h - Widget height (see coordinates)
 * color - Widget color #RRGGBBAA (Red, Green, Blue, Alpha 00 = Transparent)
 * halign - left|center|right
 * valign - top|middle|bottom
 * layer - widget layer (sub|select|highlight)
 * shadow - shadow for the widget
   * radius - Blur radius
   * offset.x - Shadow x offset
   * offset.y - Shadow y offset
   * type - None = 0, Hard = 1, Blur = 2
   * color - Color of the shadow
   * sigma - Standard deviation

====coordinates====
Coordinates can be four different types:

 * Minimum `[`min`]` - Tries to find minimum size. example: w="min"
 * Relative `[`+/-0`]` - Relative to parent widget. example: x="+10"
 * Absolute `[`0`]` - Absolute coordinate. example: w="150"
 * Percentage `[`0%`]` - Relative to parent widget. example: w="50%"

Coordinates can also hold custom margin [0:margin]. example: x="+0:15"

===image===
Bitmap image widget.
Parameters:

 * url - url of the image (See url)
 * scale - 1 = scale image to size
 * proportional - 1 = scale proportionally

====url====
Additional to all kde kioslave protocols there are couple of more.

 * template:///path/image - get image from template. example: template:///images/background.jpg
 * kde://resource/image - find image from kde dir. example: kde://wallpaper/blue-bend.jpg
 * project:///[$]title.[$]chapter - get image from project. $ locks the number (It don't grow on multiple pages) example: project:///1.1

===frame===
Frame/box widget.
Parameters:
 * line_width - Frame line width (Default: 0)
 * fill_color - Color which frame is filled (Default: transparent)
 * rounded - Frame corner radius (Default: 0)

===label===
Text label widget.
Parameters:
 * font - Label font
   * size - Font size
   * weight - Font weight
   * name - Font family
 * text - Label text
   * %[$]title.[$]chapter% - Can contain markers to include chapter texts. title = 0 -> main title.

===button===
Button (invisible widget that groups other widgets as button)
Parameters:
 * jump - `[`page name`]`:title.chapter
 * up - name of the button to go when up is pressed.
 * left - name of the button to go when left is pressed.
 * right - name of the button to go when right is pressed.
 * down - name of the button to go when down is pressed.


===group===
Widget to group other widgets.

===vbox===
Widget to group other widgets vertically.

===hbox===
Widget to group other widgets horizontally.

===spacer===
Widget that takes space in vbox or hbox.